approvaltests/docs/README.md, before:

<!--
GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT
This file was generated by [MarkdownSnippets](https://github.com/SimonCropp/MarkdownSnippets).
Source File: /approvaltests/docs/mdsource/README.source.md
To change this file edit the source file and then run MarkdownSnippets.
-->
<a id="top"></a>

# ApprovalTests 



<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Contents**

- [Features](#features)
- [Main concepts for ApprovalTests](#main-concepts-for-approvaltests)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Features
[New Features documented here](Features.md#top)

## Main concepts for ApprovalTests  

[Reporters](Reporters.md#top) Namers & Writers are the 3 pieces that allow ApprovalTests to work. 
 
**Writers** write to a file  
**Namers** figure out what the file should be called and where it is located  
**Reporters** are called on failure to help you determine what went wrong.  

---

[Back to User Guide](README.md#top)

Commit message:

d Created Configuration.md
Co-Authored-By: Angie Jones <angiejones@users.noreply.github.com>

approvaltests/docs/README.md, after:

<!--
GENERATED FILE - DO NOT EDIT
This file was generated by [MarkdownSnippets](https://github.com/SimonCropp/MarkdownSnippets).
Source File: /approvaltests/docs/mdsource/README.source.md
To change this file edit the source file and then run MarkdownSnippets.
-->
<a id="top"></a>

# ApprovalTests 



<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Contents**

- [Features](#features)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Main concepts for ApprovalTests](#main-concepts-for-approvaltests)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Features
[New Features documented here](Features.md#top)

## Configuration

Configuration of ApprovalTests mainly occurs via @Annotations and PackageSettings. 
[Read More about it here](Configuration.md#top)


## Main concepts for ApprovalTests  

[Reporters](Reporters.md#top) Namers & Writers are the 3 pieces that allow ApprovalTests to work. 
 
**Writers** write to a file  
**Namers** figure out what the file should be called and where it is located  
**Reporters** are called on failure to help you determine what went wrong.  

---

[Back to User Guide](README.md#top)
